(groovy electronic music)
(camera whirring)
(electronic buzzing)
(switch clicks)
- So, one of the best
gaming phones on the planet
is going mainstream.
Like, look at all the previous ROG Phones:
ROG Phone 1, ROG Phone 2, ROG Phone 3...
Skipped 4 because 4 is bad luck.
ROG Phone 5 ROG, Phone 6, and ROG Phone 7.
Now, this one is the ROG Phone 8 Pro.
This one is noticeably more regular.
So ASUS still makes other regular phones,
the Zenfone, and ROG still
stands for Republic of Gamers.
This is very much still a gaming phone.
But the thing that makes
gaming phones so good at gaming
also makes them really good at media
and just being all-around
really good daily drivers.
So ASUS has finally said, "You know what?
"What if we just package
our great gaming phone
"for the masses?"
And I think this is the first one
where they've really
committed to that idea.
Now, don't get me wrong, they
still pack in the gamer stuff.
There's still a hidden display
on the back of the phone
and all kinds of crazy specs,
but the pivot is real here.
So, given the fact that
it's still a gaming phone,
we are not surprised that
it still turns up the specs
all the way to the bleeding edge
with this 6.78-inch 165
Hz AMOLED display up front
that gets to a crazy bright 2,500 nits.
It's got a 3.3 gigahertz
Snapdragon 8 gen 3
with up to 24 gigs of LPDDR5X RAM
and a terabyte of UFS 4.0 fast storage.
It smokes Geekbench.
It just crushes 3DMark.
It can play "Genshin Impact" at 60 FPS.
Like, this phone is ridiculously fast.
Also, opening and moving through apps
and just using it like
a normal phone is crazy.
It's one of the snappiest
phones I've ever used.
Taking photos is extremely quick
from the millisecond your finger
touches the shutter button.
Even this optical fingerprint
reader underneath the glass
is surprisingly fast.
It's just overall the fastest,
like, the most reactive
phone I've ever used.
So all that is great, and
we know it can handle games,
but if you're ASUS,
how do you now package this
as a great daily driver?
'Cause let's be honest,
the previous gaming phones
were just so gamery.
So okay, first things first:
It's gotta be more one-handable.
Like, yes, you still want
a huge display for gaming,
and gamers will spend a lot of
time with the phone sideways
and in two hands, but
regular phone stuff happens
vertically with one hand all the time.
So they've shrunken the bezels
all the way around all the sides,
and it's pretty noticeable
at the top and the bottom,
which is now looking on par
with other full-screen
flagships out there.
And that does also mean it's
the first time in an ROG Phone
that they've ever had a hole punch camera.
But it's also a pretty small hole punch,
so it looks totally normal.
And this also comes at the
expense of a little bit
of that front-facing speaker space.
The speakers are still quite loud
and full-sounding stereo
front-facing speakers,
but yeah, the fact is
they're slightly less insane
than last year.
And then, they also went
and made the phone thinner.
So they flattened out
the frame on the sides,
again, similar to some other phones,
so the whole thing is slightly more trim,
cutting it under nine
millimeters for the first time.
And it's still, honestly,
pretty well-balanced,
even with this camera bump
that we'll talk about in a minute.
But, of course, thinner
also means, you guessed it,
slightly smaller battery,
again, for the first time in an ROG Phone.
It goes from 6,000 milliamp
hours to 5,500 milliamp hours.
To be honest, in using this phone,
I haven't really noticed the difference
because it's still such a battery champ
with all the optimizations
ASUS has pulled with the
software, with this display,
but they did technically
make the battery smaller.
So the result of all that
trimming and sculpting
is a phone that it's definitely still big,
but it's much closer to
a normal-sized phone.
It's basically the same
size as my Pixel 8 Pro
that I've been dailying,
but it still has room
for the gamery, media-friendly features.
Like, there's still a second
USB-C port on the side,
so you can keep charging
while gaming in landscape.
Still got the remappable shoulder triggers
and the rare headphone jack.
And side note, I've been testing
a couple in-ear monitors lately
and just enjoying using
them in all kinds of places,
and this is one of the rare phones
that I can actually plug
it in and use it with.
And ASUS throws in a surprising amount
of audio adjustment features
and a bunch of different
profiles and EQ settings
that you can play with
and make a big difference.
And then, hey, if you're
gonna use this daily,
people are gonna want the
confidence of water resistance.
Like, real water resistance.
Previous gaming phones don't
really focus on that too much.
ROG Phone 7 was IP54, and that's nice,
but this is the first ROG Phone
that stepped up to full IP68
water and dust resistance,
which is sort of the gold standard
of not just getting rained on
but, like, you can spill
a drink on your phone
or drop it in the toilet and
actually be totally fine.
Now, do we still think this
looks like a gaming phone?
Honestly, I think they've done a good job.
It's a nice balance.
Like, they've done a slow ramp
of toning it down a
little bit over the years
and less RGB and jagged
lines and screens on the back
and all that sort of stuff.
Now, with this one,
I think the camera bump
is the weirdest part,
but aside from that, it's pretty subtle.
Like, this one, it's a satin black,
so it doesn't show any fingerprints.
It's got a single diagonal glossy strip,
which definitely screams
or maybe whispers, "Gamer,"
but I don't mind it.
And then I could probably
do without all the text:
The "Republic of Gamers" text
or the "Good luck, have fun"
text next to the USB-C port.
But honestly, this is fine.
It's super toned down.
But what if I told you
there is still a display
on the back of this phone?
'Cause there is. They
couldn't help themselves.
Like, you literally cannot tell
when the screen is off where it is.
But if you go into the Armoury Crate
and turn on AniMe Vision...
I don't why it's called that.
But the display then lights
up, it comes to life.
It's this all-white LED dot matrix display
that can show all kinds of things,
from logos to charging status
to incoming call notifications
and notification counters, et cetera.
Even when you're taking a picture,
if there's a countdown timer,
it'll do the countdown
on the outside screen.
Or even when you're gaming,
it'll just tell the world
that you're playing a game.
It is definitely certifiably gimmicky,
but I like it anyway for a couple reasons:
One, it's still pretty minimal
on the back of the phone here.
But two, it's actually functional.
It's giving you real useful information
on the back of the phone.
I would say even more
than the Nothing Phone.
It's customizable, you can go through
and make special ones just
for whatever use case.
And then when the screen is
off, you just can't even see it,
can't even tell it's there.
And on top of all of
that, they even made room
for the first-ever wireless
charging in an ROG Phone.
So these gaming phones have
always had so much chaos
going around on the back of the phone,
with these screens and lights,
that they never had room
for wireless charging,
and that was totally fine
because gamers just weren't interested.
But this time, they've
actually made the space for it.
One thing I'll say though,
the coil is a little
higher up here than normal.
It's above that little display.
And so I think it's a little
higher than most other phones
'cause if I put the phone
on a vertical wireless charger like this,
it actually doesn't line
up, and it doesn't charge.
But I discovered that if I turn
it sideways, it does charge.
So you may have to play
with that a little bit.
And, you know, lots of people
don't use wireless charging,
and that's fine, but just
feels like this is something
you have to offer to be considered
one of the high-end versatile flagships.
Even if you never use that,
there's still 65-watt wired charging
with the brick that is,
yes, included in the box.
Now, in previous reviews,
I would literally say,
"The camera, it's pretty
bad, but it's a gaming phone.
"That's not one of the reasons
"that you're buying this phone,"
and then, so it would just be fine.
But in a phone that you want to package
and sell as a mainstream phone,
that goes from an afterthought
to literally one of the most
important pieces of this phone.
So how did they do?
Well, this is an all-new camera
system for the ROG Phone.
It's a 50-megapixel primary camera,
a 3x telephoto for the first time,
and a 13-megapixel ultra-wide.
It's more hardware than before,
but I would say it somehow still feels
behind the Zenfone 10,
which is also made by ASUS.
Like, are those branches of the company
even talking to each other? (laughs)
This primary camera sensor is an IMX890.
It's the same camera sensor
that's in the OnePlus 11,
and the Nothing Phone 2,
and some other phones
in the $600-$700 range.
And it produces pictures
that look kind of like those phones, too.
They're decent sometimes in good light,
but often a little too much motion blur
and a lot too much HDR.
Seriously, sometimes, with
people as the subjects,
it looks like they're just trying
to blast the exposure on faces
and drag everything else down.
It's just very aggressive processing.
Like it's running
algorithms made for a sensor
from five years ago.
Now, there are upsides,
like the super steady
video it's now capable of
thanks to the hybrid six-axis
gimbal, just like the Zenfone.
It means you can shoot
slightly better handheld
in low light, but it's
really smooth video.
And the front-facing
camera is wider angle,
so you can fit more people in the frame,
even if it is still kind of HDR-ry.
And the telephoto, that's something new
that the Zenfone also doesn't have,
and that is genuinely useful.
If you shoot a lot of zoom,
you know, 3x isn't the
most zoom in the world,
but the stabilization
on it is so rock solid,
so you can keep punching
it with digital zoom.
All that's to say it's leveled up,
but it's clearly still not
the focus of this phone.
(chuckles) "Focus."
But it's not the strength of this phone,
which might just be fine
in another $600-$700 phone.
But as you may have picked up from my tone
and from the rest of
the specs in this video,
this is not a $600-$700 phone.
This is a very flagship phone
with a very flagship price.
This ROG Phone starts at $1,100.
And the spec that I'm reviewing,
with the 24 gigs of RAM
and the terabyte of storage,
this ROG Phone Pro is $1,500.
Now, I also wanna point out
that you're gonna start
noticing AI features
with basically every phone
that comes out this year
with the Snapdragon 8 Gen 3.
Like, this is one of the first ones.
There's maybe one or two other
Snapdragon 8 Gen 3 phones out.
But Qualcomm has built
in new AI capabilities
into that chip, and oh,
boy, every manufacturer's
got some new AI stuff to
play with in their phone.
So, for this gaming phone,
they've built in some clever things
like pattern recognition inside of games
to fast forward through recognize scenes
in certain supported games
or even recognize what's on the screen
and prompt you to find a walkthrough
of the part of the game that you're in.
Now, I found, you know, the smaller stuff
like the setting search more useful.
It's got more semantic understanding.
It can intelligently find the
setting you're looking for
based on what you write.
So even if you type like "Two of one,"
it knows, "Oh, you're,
you're talking about
"the Twin Apps feature
"that lets you have multiple accounts open
"for one app at the same time."
But in general, that's just
gonna be a theme of 2024
to look out for:
AI capabilities of phones with this chip.
You can just trust me on this one.
So the summary of the ROG
Phone (chuckles) is...
Look, this is still a
very capable, powerful,
really fast Android
phone, like it always is,
and it's just a little more tame looking.
Like, they've traded
some of their gamery edge
for mass appeal.
And I think a lot of the
decisions were really smart.
Like trading some of the basic
stuff like thinner bezels
and a little bit more of a
trim, like, overall form factor
and one or two millimeters of thickness
for a slightly smaller battery, fine.
And I still think, you know,
getting the gamer stuff
with the display on the back
but still having wireless charging
and IP68 water resistance, that's great.
But the one thing that they couldn't quite
get over that hump is the camera system.
It's good, but it's not over that hump,
and that just happens to be one
of the most important things
about a mainstream phone.
And so this remains a
really good gamer phone.
Thanks for watching.
Catch you guys in the next one.
Peace.
♪ Your words and things you bought ♪